---
title: "Blog 10"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
# What are AWS spot instances?

AWS spot instances are an amazing tool to significantly reduce your EC2 on demand instance costs by up to 90%. 
Spot instances are being used by an increasing number of businesses, ranging from SMBs to enterprises, for mission-critical and production workloads. 
Spot instance pricing has greatly reduced their cloud costs.

AWS spot instances are AWS's extra capacity. As a cloud provider, they must have extra capacity on hand in case of a surge in customer demand. To compensate for the loss of idle infrastructure, AWS offers this excess capacity at a massive discount in order to encourage usage. That is why spot instance pricing is so low in comparison to EC2 on-demand pricing.

## When should you use Amazon spot instances?

Amazon spot instances are commonly thought to be suitable for web servers, containerized software, and other stateless, fault-tolerant workloads.

In reality, however, they can be used for a much broader range of use cases with no significant impact on availability or performance. 
Following are some good examples:

1. Data and IP persistence are common requirements for **stateful applications**. Even if an AWS spot instance is replaced, with automated solutions, the workload will automatically restart in the desired Availability Zone, from the same exact data point, with root and data volumes, as well as private and public IPs, preserved.
2. **Machine Learning** is another area where profound learning and progress can be affected negative by unplanned interruptions of the AWS spot. However, with the right tools, you can successfully run all of your machine learning projects on spot instances.
3. **CI/CD operations** can be done on the ground very easily whether Jenkins, Chef, Gitlab or others.
4. Spot instances are ideal for **Big Data** running on AWS EMR, Hadoop, or Spark.
5. **Distributed DBs**, such as Elasticsearch, Cassandra, Mongo, that can handle a single instance "reboot" on the spot without data loss or affecting the service.

## What are Spot Instance Interruptions?

This reduced instance price for the Amazon EC2 spot comes with a warning. With just 2 minutes of alert, AWS will 'pull the plug' and end spot events. Such interruptions occur if AWS must draw on its ability to support consumers who have purchased retention cases, savings plans or instances on demand.

Although AWS offers 'power rebalancing' to alert you of the risk of termination of an EC2 spot case, AWS does not guarantee the delivery of these to you at an early stage for action.

There are several reasons why a spot instance can be interrupted by Amazon EC2:

1. **Capacity** — EC2 has insufficient unused instances to provide on request or reserved instances, so it may suspend instances to fulfill those applications
2. **Constraint** — Instances would be discontinued as a group if the request for spot instance is specifying a launch group or a group for Availability Zone and these restrictions cannot be addressed.

If you interrupt an instance, you can either pick one of three possible actions – end of the instance of the spot instance (default), pause the spot instance, or hibernate the instance.
