---
title: "Blog 8"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Building a CI/CD pipeline for Hugo websites - Part 2 </h1>
<h2> Creating static websites for Hugo </h2>
<p> To create static websites for Hugo, you must use an environment with the Hugo framework installed. You then run hugo from the command line interface (CLI). This must happen every time you create and upload new content to the repository. To streamline this process, I use AWS CodePipeline and AWS CodeBuild. </p>

<p> With AWS CodePipeline, I define the deployment stages to create a release pipeline according to my release schedule. The pipeline then gets triggered whenever I push a change to the CodeCommit repository. The following image shows the order of the three pipeline stages: source, build, and deploy. </p>

<p> The source stage tells the pipeline where the source code resides. Because the Hugo project is stored in a CodeCommit repository, this stage uses AWS CodeCommit as a source provider that connects to the repository. </p>

<p> The build stage creates the static website using AWS CodeBuild, which has multiple prepackaged build environments. In this case, I use an Ubuntu Linux environment. To configure it and run commands, I create a build specification file, which is a YAML-based collection of build commands and related settings that CodeBuild uses. The following code block shows the contents of the file. </p>

<p> The following are the three phases defined in the build specification file. </p>

<ol>
  <li> Install: Instructs CodeBuild to use a runtime environment with Python 3.8 and runs commands to install the Hugo package. </li>
  <li> Pre-build: Instructs CodeBuild to run commands to ensure that the project’s source code is copied successfully to your environment and that all the files are available.           </li>
  <li> Build: Provides commands to create static websites for your Hugo project. In this case, the command is hugo -v, which creates a public folder in the current working                directory for storing all of the generated files and folders. </li>
</ol>
