---
title: "Blog 7"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Building a CI/CD pipeline for Hugo websites - Part 1 </h1>
<p> If you use the Hugo framework, you're probably aware of the additional steps required to publish your website.If you use the Hugo framework, you're probably aware of the additional steps required to publish your website. Additional steps include generating static HTML files and other assets from your markdown file, syncing content to your hosting platform, and changing your content's permissions. Manually performing these steps can introduce errors, which is especially important for websites that span multiple collaborative projects. As a result, it is critical to automate the publishing process so that it is consistent and efficient. </p>

<p> I'll show you how to use a continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) pipeline on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud to automate the static file generation and content publishing processes of a Hugo website. To build a pipeline, I use an AWS CloudFormation template and Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to host a static website. As a result, a highly scalable, reliable, fast, and low-cost infrastructure for static content is created. All of the services used on this site are fully managed and serverless, and you only pay for what you use. </p>

<h2> What is Hugo? </h2>
<p> Hugo is a general-purpose framework for creating static websites quickly. Hugo generates the corresponding HTML, JSON, and CSS files after you write the content for your website in markdown (.md). This is beneficial to authors because it allows them to concentrate on the content of their posts rather than worrying about code conversions.

<p> Hugo is used by many AWS teams to publish workshop content because it provides flexible and custom solutions for generating HTML-based websites. Hugo websites are static by nature, so they can be easily hosted on Amazon S3 and work well with Amazon CloudFront. As a result, website hosting is both efficient and serverless. </p>

<h2> Prerequisites </h2>
<p> We assumed that: </p>
<ol>
  <li> You use the Hugo framework for your website. </li>
  <li> You have an AWS account. </li>
  <li> You have administrative access to create resources in your AWS account. </li>
</ol>  
