---
title: "Blog 6"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> PCAP file Extension and TCreply tool </h1>

<h2> What is pcap file extention? </h2>
<p> pcap file or packet capture also called libpcap, is an API which captures live network packet data from OSI model layers 2 to 7. These files are mainly associated with Wireshark to record and collect the pocket data from network. </p> 

<p> The standard format of a capture file begins with a File header Followed by zero or more Packet records. Files within File Header and Packet records will always be saved based on the characteristics of the capturing machine. The content of these files is mainly used in analyzing the network and characteristics of certain data. Packet length as it was “on the wire” ,Timestamp with millisecond resolution, Packet’s raw bytes, Packet length as it is saved in the file will be saved in each packet. </p>

<h2> What is the TCreply tool? </h2>
<p> Tcpreplay is a suite of GPLv3 licensed utilities for UNIX (and Win32 under Cygwin) operating systems for editing and replaying network traffic which was previously captured by tools like tcpdump and Wireshark. This tool allows the user to replay any standard pcap to the sniffing interface of the Security Onion sensor. Tcreplay is designed to work with network hardware and normally does not penetrate deeper than layer 2. The basic operation of tcreplay is to resend all packets from the input file(s) at the speed at which they were recorded, or a specified data rate, up to as fast as the hardware is capable. </p>

<p><u>IMPORTANT Note: </u></p>
<p> Before using a tool like tcreplay on a dangerous .pcap file, why is it mandatory to disable your network connection from your host operating system, and/or disable the wireless adapter because it can replay protocols that impact the operation of the network. If you use a tool like tcpreplay to replay and analyze a .pcap file, there is a chance that there might be something malicious within the .pcap file. This danger would escape onto my network, proliferate itself, and the damage will continue to get worse like how a botnet attaches itself and spreads itself on a network. Therefore, it could release malicious traffic onto public internet, turning me into a hacker and breaking the law. </p>

